Title: A Fistful of Bitcoins: Characterizing Payments Among Men with No Names

Link:  http://cseweb.ucsd.edu/~smeiklejohn/files/imc13.pdf


Problem solved:
  Analyzing longitudinal changes in bitcoin market and evaluating anonymity
  in bitcoin network. 

  Identify certain idiom of use present in concrete Bitcoin network implementations
  that erode the anonymity of the user who engage in them.

MOTIVATION:
  bitcoin network is "pseudoanonymous". Due to its scalability, irrevocability,
  and anonymity there is a growing concern about the attractiveness of bitcoin
  for criminals engaged in fraud or money laundering.

Technical Contributions:

  

APPROACH:
  Authors analyze bitcoin block chain to understand and explore the evolution in
  how Bitcoin has been used over time.

  Predominant method of tagging users : Transact with them (re-identification attack)


  Clustering Heuristics:
    heuristic 1: If two (or more) addresses are input to a transaction then they are controlled by the same entity. This heuristic gave 5,577,481 distint clusters from 12,056,684 public keys.

    heuristic 2: This heuristic is based on the way current bitcoin wallets operate and may not hold in the future. It relies on the behaviour that change addresses generated by bitcoin client are one time addresses which are unique for every transaction and user. It is not visible to the user and is not used again. 
    If the change addresses are identified then it is possible to cluster the input addresses for a transaction (according to heuristic 1) but also change address and the input user.


    Definition: The one time change address is controlled by the same user as the input address.

    This clustering heuristics after some further refinement for corner cases lead to clustering into 3,383,904 entities. 


PITFALL:
  False positives can lead to collapsing of transaction graphs into super clusters that are not actually controlled by a single user. The heuristic has to be safe.

ASSUMPTIONS:
  The data is current uptil April 13, 2013

CONCLUSION:


PSEUDOANONYMITY OF BITCOIN NETWORK:
  Bitcoin network is dubbed as "pseudoanonymous" as identities in bitcoin
  network are not tied to real world entities but all the transactions are
  completely transparent.


- Re-identification attack


OBSERVATIONS:

  Since introduction of bitcoins majority of transactions are payout to miners (i.e. 50 coins). This is the adoption phase. 
  After early 2012, percentage of transactions carrying less than 1 bitcoin doubled from 20% to 40% while the percentage of transaction carrying less than 0.1 bitcoin tripled.


  Spending patterns

    Users were hoarding bitcoins for the first 15 months and after that comes some meaningful transactions. 
    Only 64% of total number of bitcoins i.e. 4 million bitcoins are in circulation on the date
    April 2012 (Satoshi dice) : percentage of bitcoin spent immediate (i.e. in the same block chain in which they were received) doubled
                 almost half of all bitcoins are now spent within an hour of being received
                 80% of bitcoins are spent within a day



- The bitcoins can only be spent in units in which they were received in a transaction. Consequently, a transaction has a change address that points back to sender of bitcoin to which the change is transferred from the transaction.
